Cloud native java microservices with istio (#1008)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-06-01-cloud-native-java-microservices-with-istio.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Cloud Native Java Microservices with JHipster and Istio"
author: deepu-sasidharan
by: advocate
communities: [devops, kubernetes, java]
description: "Build a cloud-native Java microservice stack on Google Kubernetes Engine using Istio and JHipster."
tags: [kubernetes, jhipster, spring-boot, spring, java, istio, gcp, react, service-mesh]
tweets:
  - "Build a #Java microservice stack on Google Cloud using #JHipster, #Istio, and #Kubernetes"
  - "Deploy a cloud-native #Java microservice stack to GKE with #Istio and #JHipster"

> image:

Reviewer: Missing a social image. I'd also add the GitHub repo here so you can find it w/o scrolling to the bottom.

type: awareness
---

> Microservices are not everyone's cup of tea, and they shouldn't be. Not every problem can be or should be solved by microservices. Sometimes building a simple monolith is a far better option. Microservices are solutions for use cases where scale and scalability are important. A few years ago, microservices were all the rage, made popular, especially by companies like Netflix, Spotify, Google, etc. While the hype has died down a bit, the genuine use cases still exist, and with the advances in cloud computing technologies, building microservices as cloud-native services is the way to go due to many of its benefits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Microservices are not everyone's cup of tea, and they shouldn't be. Not every problem can be or should be solved by microservices. Sometimes building a simple monolith is a far better option. Microservices are solutions for use cases where scale and scalability are important. A few years ago, microservices were all the rage, made popular, especially by companies like Netflix, Spotify, Google, etc. While the hype has died down a bit, the genuine use cases still exist, and with the advances in cloud computing technologies, building microservices as cloud-native services is the way to go due to many of its benefits.
```
```suggestion
Microservices are not everyone's cup of tea, and they shouldn't be. Not every problem can or should be solved by microservices. Sometimes building a simple monolith is a far better option. Microservices are solutions for use cases where scale and scalability are important. A few years ago, microservices were all the rage, made popular, especially by companies like Netflix, Spotify, Google, etc. While the hype has died down a bit, genuine use cases still exist. With ongoing advances in cloud computing technologies, building microservices as cloud-native services is the way to go due to many benefits.
```
simplifying for clarity

> Today we will look at building a cloud-native Java microservice stack that utilizes a service mesh to provide most of the distributed system needs and will deploy it to the cloud using Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today we will look at building a cloud-native Java microservice stack that utilizes a service mesh to provide most of the distributed system needs and we'll deploy it to the cloud using Kubernetes.
```
typo

> So here is what we will be doing today:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So here is what we will do today:
```
align the verb tense above with the list of bullets

- Build a Java microservice stack using JHipster, Spring Boot, and Spring Cloud
- Create a Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) cluster
- Deploy Istio service mesh to the cluster

> - Setup monitoring and observability

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set up monitoring and observability
```
two words as a verb

- Deploy and monitor the microservices to the cluster

Let's get started!

{% include toc.md %}

> If you prefer to follow along by watching a video, here's the video from the [OktaDev YouTube channel](https://youtu.be/zGpnIhRgMaM).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer to follow along by watching a video, see [How to Build Low-Code Microservices on the Cloud Using Istio, JHipster, and Kubernetes] on the [OktaDev YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/oktadev).
```

{% youtube zGpnIhRgMaM %}

> **Pre-requisites**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Prerequisites**
```

Reviewer: FWIW, I usually put the prerequisites right before the TOC. For example, see [this post](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2022/06/02/java-rest-api-helidon).

- A [Google Cloud Platform](https://cloud.google.com/) account
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started) installed on your machine
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed on your machine

> - [JHipster installed](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/) on your machine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [JHipster](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/)  installed on your machine
```
consistent link pattern

- [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) installed and configured on your machine
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) or [KDash](https://github.com/kdash-rs/kdash)
- Basic understanding of Java, Spring, Containers, and Kubernetes

> ## Why Build Cloud-Native Microservices Using a Service Mesh?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Why build cloud-native microservices using a service mesh?
```
sentence case for section headings

Before we dive into building a cloud-native microservice stack, let's look at what a service mesh is and the benefits of using one.

> A service mesh provides features to help with common distributed microservice challenges. Like service discovery, routing, load balancing, and so on. Today we will be using [Istio](https://istio.io/), one of the most popular service mesh solutions available. Istio is tailored for distributed application architectures, especially those you might run in Kubernetes. Istio plays extremely nice with Kubernetes, so nice that you might think that it's part of the Kubernetes platform itself. Istio isn't the only service mesh around; we also have platforms like [Linkerd](https://linkerd.io/) and [Consul](https://www.consul.io/) which are also quite popular.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A service mesh provides features to help with common distributed microservice challenges. Like service discovery, routing, load balancing, and so on. Today we will be using [Istio](https://istio.io/), one of the most popular service mesh solutions available. Istio is tailored for distributed application architectures, especially those you might run in Kubernetes. Istio plays nicely with Kubernetes, so nicely that you might think that it's part of the Kubernetes platform itself. Istio isn't the only service mesh around; we also have platforms like [Linkerd](https://linkerd.io/) and [Consul](https://www.consul.io/), which are also quite popular.
```
grammar/punctuation

Istio specifically provides the following features.

- Secure service-to-service communication over TLS. Of course, with support for identity-based authentication and authorization.

> - Service discovery, so that your microservices can discover each other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Service discovery, so that your microservices can discover each other.
```
consistent punctuation for the whole list.

- Automatic load balancing for the services
- Traffic control features like routing, circuit breaking, retries, fail-overs, and fault injection.
- A pluggable policy layer that can enforce stuff like access control, rate limiting, A/B testing, traffic splits, quotas, etc.

> - It also provides automatic metrics, logs, and traces for all traffic within the cluster from Ingres to Egress and between pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It also provides automatic metrics, logs, and traces for all traffic within the cluster from Ingress to Egress and between pods.
```
spelling

### What is Istio Service Mesh?

Let's take a quick look at Istio internals. The Istio architecture can be classified into two distinct planes.

{% img blog/cloud-native-java-microservices-with-istio/istio-architecture.png alt:"Istio Service Mesh Architecture" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

**Data plane**: It's made of [Envoy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/) proxies deployed as sidecars to our application containers. Envoy is a high-performance, lightweight distributed proxy. It controls all the incoming and outgoing traffic to the container it is attached to.

> **Control plane**: It consists of the istiod demon, and it manages and configures the envoy proxies to route traffic. It also enforces policies and collects telemetry. It has components like Pilot for traffic management, Citadel to manage security, and Galley to manage configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Control plane**: It consists of the istiod demon, and it manages and configures the envoy proxies to route traffic. The control plane also enforces policies and collects telemetry, and includes components like Pilot for traffic management, Citadel to manage security, and Galley to manage configurations.
```
avoids repetition of "It"

> **Control plane**: It consists of the istiod demon, and it manages and configures the envoy proxies to route traffic. It also enforces policies and collects telemetry. It has components like Pilot for traffic management, Citadel to manage security, and Galley to manage configurations.

Reviewer: You might want to order these planes in the same order as they are in the diagram above.

> We can use tools like [Grafana](https://grafana.com/), [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), [Kiali](https://www.kiali.io/) and [Zipkin](https://zipkin.io/) for Monitoring and Observability as they work well with the telemetry provided by Istio. You can use this or use your existing monitoring stack as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use tools like [Grafana](https://grafana.com/), [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), [Kiali](https://www.kiali.io/) and [Zipkin](https://zipkin.io/) for monitoring and observability as they work well with the telemetry provided by Istio. You can use these or use your existing monitoring stack as well.
```
grammar. Monitoring and Observability are not product names, don't need uppercase

## Build a Java Microservices Stack using JHipster

> Before you proceed, ensure you have installed JHipster. If not, install it using the command `npm -g install generator-jhipster`. At the moment of writing, I'm using the JHipster version **7.8.1**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you proceed, ensure you have installed JHipster. If not, install it using the command `npm -g install generator-jhipster`. At the moment of writing, I'm using JHipster version **7.8.1**.
```
You can avoid the last sentence if you use `npm -g install generator-jhipster@7`.

We will be using the [JHipster Domain Language (JDL)](https://www.jhipster.tech/jdl/intro) to define our microservices, entities, and deployment options. But first, let's take a look at the architecture we will be building today.

{% img blog/cloud-native-java-microservices-with-istio/istio-ms-architecture.png alt:"Istio Microservice Architecture" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

We have the Istio control plane taking care of policy, load balancing, etc. We also have the Istio Ingress gateway to route all external traffic to our applications. We have four microservices. First is a gateway application created by JHipster that acts as our React GUI and authentication layer. The remaining are services that provide APIs. Each of our containers will have an envoy proxy as an auto-injected sidecar. We hook up Grafana, Prometheus, Zipkin, and Kiali to the telemetry provided by Istio so that we have monitoring and observability for our cluster. Each microservice also has its own database.

> If you would prefer not to build the application yourself, clone the example from [GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-java-spring-k8s-istio-microservices-example)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would prefer not to build the application yourself, clone the example from [GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-java-spring-k8s-istio-microservices-example).
```

I would add the clone command here so it's easy to copy and paste.

```
git clone https://github.com/oktadev/okta-java-spring-k8s-istio-microservices-example.git
```

> It's not an overly complex architecture, but it's also not that simple. First, let us define our microservice using JDL. Create a file called **app.jdl** and paste the following content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's not an overly complex architecture, but it's also not that simple. First, let us define our microservice using JDL. Create a file called **app.jdl** and paste the following content into it.
```

Author: Grammarly originally made me remove 'into it' :rofl:

    packageName com.okta.developer.store
    serviceDiscoveryType no
    authenticationType jwt
    prodDatabaseType postgresql
    cacheProvider hazelcast
    buildTool gradle
    clientFramework react
  }
  entities *
}

application {
  config {
    baseName product
    applicationType microservice
    packageName com.okta.developer.product
    serviceDiscoveryType no
    authenticationType jwt
    prodDatabaseType postgresql
    cacheProvider hazelcast
    buildTool gradle
    serverPort 8081
  }
  entities Product, ProductCategory, ProductOrder, OrderItem
}

application {
  config {
    baseName invoice
    applicationType microservice
    packageName com.okta.developer.invoice
    serviceDiscoveryType no
    authenticationType jwt
    prodDatabaseType postgresql
    buildTool gradle
    serverPort 8082
  }
  entities Invoice, Shipment
}

application {
  config {
    baseName notification
    applicationType microservice
    packageName com.okta.developer.notification
    serviceDiscoveryType no
    authenticationType jwt
    databaseType mongodb
    cacheProvider no
    enableHibernateCache false
    buildTool gradle
    serverPort 8083
  }
  entities Notification
}
```

> It's pretty straightforward. Each application defines its name, package name, authentication type, database, etc. For all supported options and configurations, please refer to the [JDL applications documentation](https://www.jhipster.tech/jdl/applications). Each application also defines the `applicationType` and the entities it serves. So next step would be to add these entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's pretty straightforward. Each application defines its name, package name, authentication type, database, etc. For all supported options and configurations, please refer to the [JDL applications documentation](https://www.jhipster.tech/jdl/applications). Each application also defines the `applicationType` and the entities it serves. The next step is to add these entities.
```

> ```kotlin

Reviewer: I've never used Kotlin for JDL before. It looks like it works nicely!

  email String required pattern(/^[^@\s]+@[^@\s]+\.[^@\s]+$/)
  phone String required
  addressLine1 String required
  addressLine2 String
  city String required
  country String required
}

enum Gender {
  MALE, FEMALE, OTHER
}

relationship OneToOne {
  Customer{user(login) required} to User
}

service Customer with serviceClass
paginate Customer with pagination

/**
 * Entities for product microservice
 */
// Product sold by the Online store
entity Product {
  name String required
  description String
  price BigDecimal required min(0)
  itemSize Size required
  image ImageBlob
}

enum Size {
  S, M, L, XL, XXL
}

entity ProductCategory {
  name String required
  description String
}

entity ProductOrder {
  placedDate Instant required
  status OrderStatus required
  code String required
  invoiceId Long
  customer String required
}

enum OrderStatus {
  COMPLETED, PENDING, CANCELLED
}

entity OrderItem {
  quantity Integer required min(0)
  totalPrice BigDecimal required min(0)
  status OrderItemStatus required
}

enum OrderItemStatus {
  AVAILABLE, OUT_OF_STOCK, BACK_ORDER
}

relationship ManyToOne {
  OrderItem{product(name) required} to Product
}

relationship OneToMany {

>   ProductOrder{orderItem} to OrderItem{order(code) required} ,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ProductOrder{orderItem} to OrderItem{order(code) required}
```

  paymentDate Instant required
  paymentAmount BigDecimal required
}

enum InvoiceStatus {
  PAID, ISSUED, CANCELLED
}

entity Shipment {
  trackingCode String
  date Instant required
  details String
}

enum PaymentMethod {
  CREDIT_CARD, CASH_ON_DELIVERY, PAYPAL
}

relationship OneToMany {
  Invoice{shipment} to Shipment{invoice(code) required}
}

service Invoice, Shipment with serviceClass
paginate Invoice, Shipment with pagination
microservice Invoice, Shipment with invoice

/**
 * Entities for notification microservice
 */
entity Notification {
  date Instant required
  details String
  sentDate Instant required
  format NotificationType required
  userId Long required
  productId Long required
}

enum NotificationType {
  EMAIL, SMS, PARCEL
}

microservice Notification with notification
```

We define entities for each service and mark the entities as microservice entities. We also define relationships between entities, enums, and other options like pagination, service layer, etc. Please refer to JDL [Entities](https://www.jhipster.tech/jdl/entities-fields) and [relationships](https://www.jhipster.tech/jdl/relationships) documentation for more possibilities.

> Now, we are ready to run JHipster. Open a terminal window on the folder where you saved the JDL and run the below command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, we are ready to run JHipster. Open a terminal window on the folder where you saved the JDL and run the following command.
```

```bash
jhipster jdl app.jdl --fork
```

> This will create the applications with all their entities and specified configurations. You should be able to see the gateway application in action by running the below command on the **store** folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will create the applications with all their entities and specified configurations. You should be able to see the gateway application in action by running the following command on the **store** folder.
```

```bash

> ./gradlew # starts the spring boot application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./gradlew # starts the Spring Boot application
```

```

> You can find a [sample application on GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-java-spring-k8s-istio-microservices-example).

Reviewer: This sentence sounds funny. I'd change it to something like "You can see everything that's generated in the example application on GitHub."

> ## Create a GKE Cluster and Install Istio

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a GKE cluster and install Istio
```
sentence case

To deploy the stack to Google Kubernetes Engine, we need to create a cluster and install Istio. So let's begin by creating a cluster using Google Cloud SDK.

### Create a cluster

> Ensure you are logged into the gcloud CLI and run the below command to create a GKE cluster.

Reviewer: You might want to link to https://console.cloud.google.com/ here.

Author: I added  a link to the CLI page instead

> Ensure you are logged into the gcloud CLI and run the below command to create a GKE cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ensure you are logged into the gcloud CLI and run the following command to create a GKE cluster.
```
see line 16 here: https://oktawiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/722929640/InfoDev+Style+Guide#2.-Terminology-quick-reference "Don't use to refer to a place in your doc. Use a cross reference to the heading, or use the following."

```bash
# set region and zone
gcloud config set compute/region europe-west1
gcloud config set compute/zone europe-west1-b
# Create a project and enable container APIs
gcloud projects create jhipster-demo-okta # You need to also enable billing via GUI
gcloud config set project jhipster-demo-okta
gcloud services enable container.googleapis.com

# Create GKE Cluster
gcloud container clusters create hello-hipster \
   --num-nodes 4 \
   --machine-type n1-standard-2
```

> This could take anywhere between 5 to 15 minutes. `--machine-type` is important as we need more CPU than available in the default setup. Once the cluster is created, it should be set automatically as the current Kubernetes context. You can verify that by running `kubectl config current-context`. If the new cluster is not set as the current context, you can set it by running `gcloud container clusters get-credentials hello-hipster`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This could take anywhere from 5 to 15 minutes. `--machine-type` is important as we need more CPU than available in the default setup. Once the cluster is created, it should be set automatically as the current Kubernetes context. You can verify that by running `kubectl config current-context`. If the new cluster is not set as the current context, you can set it by running `gcloud container clusters get-credentials hello-hipster`.
```
more idiomatic

{% img blog/cloud-native-java-microservices-with-istio/kdash-clusters.png alt:"GKE Cluster nodes" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

> **Note**: I'm using [KDash](https://kdash.cli.rs/) to monitor the cluster; you can try it or use kubectl, [k9s](https://github.com/derailed/k9s), and so on as you prefer.

### Install Istio to cluster

> As of writing this, I'm using Istio version 1.13.4. You can install **istioctl** by running the below command, preferably from the home directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of writing this, I'm using Istio version 1.13.4. You can install **istioctl** by running the below command, preferably from your home directory.
```

> As of writing this, I'm using Istio version 1.13.4. You can install **istioctl** by running the below command, preferably from the home directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of writing this, I'm using Istio version 1.13.4. You can install **istioctl** by running the following command, preferably from the home directory.
```

```bash
export ISTIO_VERSION=1.13.4
curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | sh -
cd istio-$ISTIO_VERSION
export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
```

> You should now be able to run **istioctl** from the command line. Now, we can use the CLI to Install Istio to the GKE cluster. Istio provides a few [Helm](https://helm.sh/) profiles out of the box. We will use the demo profile for demo purposes. You can choose the production or dev profile as well. The command should install Istio and setup everything required on our cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should now be able to run **istioctl** from the command line. Now, we can use the CLI to Install Istio to the GKE cluster. Istio provides a few [Helm](https://helm.sh/) profiles out of the box. We will use the demo profile for demo purposes. You can choose the production or dev profile as well. The command should install Istio and set up everything required on our cluster.
```
verb is two words

```bash
istioctl install --set profile=demo -y
```

> **Note**: If you run into any trouble with firewall or user privilege issues, please refer to [GKE setup guide from Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/platform-setup/gke/).

> Once the installation is complete, we need to fetch the External IP of the Istio Ingress Gateway. If you are using KDash, you can see it on the services tab, or you can run this command to get it using kubectl: `kubectl get svc istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system`

Reviewer: Put command on its own line so it's easier to copy and paste.

> ### Install Observability tools

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Install observability tools
```
sentence case

> Istio also provides addons for most of the popular monitoring and observability tools. Lets install Grafana, Prometheus, Kiali and Zipkin on our cluster. These are pre-configured to work with the telemetry data provided by Istio. Ensure you are in the folder where you installed Istio, like **istio-1.13.4**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Istio also provides addons for most of the popular monitoring and observability tools. Let's install Grafana, Prometheus, Kiali and Zipkin on our cluster. These are preconfigured to work with the telemetry data provided by Istio. Ensure you are in the folder where you installed Istio, like **istio-1.13.4**.
```
typo

```bash
cd istio-$ISTIO_VERSION
kubectl apply -f samples/addons/grafana.yaml
kubectl apply -f samples/addons/prometheus.yaml
kubectl apply -f samples/addons/kiali.yaml
kubectl apply -f samples/addons/extras/zipkin.yaml
```

{% img blog/cloud-native-java-microservices-with-istio/istio-pods.png alt:"GKE Cluster with Istio pods" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

If we look at the istio-system namespace, we can see all the Istio components along with Grafana, Prometheus, Kiali, and Zipkin running. You can also see this by running `kubectl get pods -n istio-system`.

## Deploy the microservice stack to GKE

> Our cluster is ready, and we have Istio installed. Now, we can deploy our microservice stack to the cluster. But before that, we need to create Kubernetes manifests for our deployments and services and configurations for Istio. And once again, JHipster comes to the rescue. We can use the [JDL deployment](https://www.jhipster.tech/jdl/deployments) configurations to generate Kubernetes setup for our stack with one command easily.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our cluster is ready, and we have Istio installed. Now, we can deploy our microservice stack to the cluster. First, we need to create Kubernetes manifests for our deployments and services and configurations for Istio. And once again, JHipster comes to the rescue. We can use the [JDL deployment](https://www.jhipster.tech/jdl/deployments) configurations to generate Kubernetes setup for our stack with one command easily.
```
conciseness

### Create Kubernetes manifests

> Create a new JDL file, say **deployment.jdl**, and add the following content.

Reviewer: I'd suggest putting the filename in back ticks instead of bold. It probably doesn't matter though, as long as you're consistent.

```kotlin
// will be created under 'kubernetes' folder
deployment {
  deploymentType kubernetes
  appsFolders [store, invoice, notification, product]
  dockerRepositoryName "<your-docker-repository-name>"
  serviceDiscoveryType no
  istio true
  kubernetesServiceType Ingress
  kubernetesNamespace jhipster
  ingressDomain "<istio-ingress-gateway-external-ip>.nip.io"
  ingressType gke
}
```

I hope it's self-explanatory. You can refer to the JDL deployment documentation for all the available options. We have enabled Istio and set the ingress domain to the Istio Ingress Gateway's external IP that we noted earlier. Make sure to use a docker repo where you have push rights.

Now run the following command from the root folder where you ran the previous `jhipster jdl` command.

```bash
jhipster jdl deployment.jdl
```

> This will create a new folder, **kubernetes**, with all the required Kubernetes manifests like deployments, services, Istio virtual services, gateways, and so on for all the applications, databases, and monitoring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will create a new folder, **kubernetes**, with all the required Kubernetes manifests like deployments, services, Istio virtual services, gateways, and so on, for all the applications, databases, and monitoring.
```

{% img blog/cloud-native-java-microservices-with-istio/k8s-deployment.png alt:"JHipster JDL deployment" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

> Each of the services will also have an Istio [virtual service](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/virtual-service/) and [destination rule](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/destination-rule/). For example, the invoice service will have the below destination rule defining traffic policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each of the services will also have an Istio [virtual service](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/virtual-service/) and [destination rule](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/destination-rule/). For example, the invoice service will have the following destination rule defining traffic policies.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: invoice-destinationrule
  namespace: jhipster
spec:
  host: invoice
  trafficPolicy:
    loadBalancer:
      simple: RANDOM
    connectionPool:
      tcp:
        maxConnections: 30
        connectTimeout: 100ms
      http:
        http1MaxPendingRequests: 10
        http2MaxRequests: 100
        maxRequestsPerConnection: 10
        maxRetries: 5
    outlierDetection:
      consecutive5xxErrors: 5
      interval: 30s
      baseEjectionTime: 60s
  subsets:
    - name: v1
      labels:
        version: "v1"
```

> It also has the below virtual service that defines the route. You could also use virtual services to do traffic split between two versions of the same app, among other things.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also includes the following virtual service that defines the route. You could also use virtual services to do traffic split between two versions of the same app, among other things.
```

        name: http
        protocol: HTTP
      hosts:
        - store.jhipster.34.76.233.160.nip.io
    - port:
        number: 80
        name: http2
        protocol: HTTP2
      hosts:
        - store.jhipster.34.76.233.160.nip.io
---
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: store-gw-virtualservice
  namespace: jhipster
  labels:
    service: store-gw-virtualservice
spec:
  hosts:
    - store.jhipster.34.76.233.160.nip.io
  gateways:
    - store-gateway
  http:
    - match:
        - uri:
            prefix: /services/invoice/
      rewrite:
        uri: /
      route:
        - destination:
            host: invoice
    - match:
        - uri:
            prefix: /services/notification/
      rewrite:
        uri: /
      route:
        - destination:
            host: notification
    - match:
        - uri:
            prefix: /services/product/
      rewrite:
        uri: /
      route:
        - destination:
            host: product
    - route:
        - destination:
            host: store
```

As you can see, there are also many useful commands printed on the console that you can use to do the deployment.

### Deploy to GKE

> We are ready to deploy now. First, we need to build and push the images to the registry. We can use the handy [Jib](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/jib) commands provided by JHipster. Navigate to each of the microservice folders and run the command below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are ready to deploy now. First, we need to build and push the images to the registry. We can use the handy [Jib](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/jib) commands provided by JHipster. Navigate to each of the microservice folders and run the commands below.
```

```bash
cd store && ./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=deepu105/store
cd invoice && ./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=deepu105/invoice
cd notification && ./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=deepu105/notification

> cd product && ./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=deepu105/product

Reviewer: These commands have your Docker Hub username in them. Should the reader change them to use their own?

```

Once the images are pushed to the Docker registry, we can deploy the stack using the handy script provided by JHipster. Navigate to the `kubernetes` folder created by JHipster and run the following command.

```bash
cd kubernetes
./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```

Once the deployments are done, we must wait for the pods to be in **RUNNING** status. Useful links will be printed on the terminal; make a note of them.

{% img blog/cloud-native-java-microservices-with-istio/jhipster-deployment.png alt:"GKE cluster with application pods" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

You can now access the application at the given `http://store.jhipster.<istio-ingress-gateway-external-ip>.nip.io` URI and log in with the default credentials.

{% img blog/cloud-native-java-microservices-with-istio/jh-store-app.png alt:"Store gateway application" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

> Currently the JHipster OIDC setup does not work with Istio and there is an [open issue](https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/17384) in JHipster issue tracker for this. Alternative solutions would be to use an [external authorization server](https://istio.io/latest/blog/2021/better-external-authz/) with something like [Open Policy Agent](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/). We will cover this in a later blog post.

Reviewer: You might want to make this a note.
```suggestion
**NOTE**: Currently, the JHipster OIDC setup does not work with Istio and there is an [open issue](https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/17384) in JHipster issue tracker for this. Alternative solutions would be to use an [external authorization server](https://istio.io/latest/blog/2021/better-external-authz/) with something like [Open Policy Agent](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/). We will cover this in a later blog post.
```

> Currently the JHipster OIDC setup does not work with Istio and there is an [open issue](https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/17384) in JHipster issue tracker for this. Alternative solutions would be to use an [external authorization server](https://istio.io/latest/blog/2021/better-external-authz/) with something like [Open Policy Agent](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/). We will cover this in a later blog post.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently the JHipster OIDC setup does not work with Istio and there is an [open issue](https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/17384) in JHipster issue tracker for this. An alternative solution is to use an [external authorization server](https://istio.io/latest/blog/2021/better-external-authz/) with something like [Open Policy Agent](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/). We will cover this in a future blog post.
```

### Monitoring and observability

Since we deployed tools for observability, let's see what we have.

> **Grafana**

Reviewer: You might want to make these H4s so they aren't so small.

> First up are Grafana and Prometheus for metrics and dashboards. Click the URI for Grafana from the previous deployment step. Click **General** at the top left corner and click the **istio** folder. You should see multiple pre-configured dashboards. You can monitor the performance of the workloads and the istio system itself here. You can also create your own dashboards if you like. Prometheus provides the data visualized on Grafana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First up are Grafana and Prometheus for metrics and dashboards. Click the URI for Grafana from the previous deployment step. Click **General** at the top left corner and click the **istio** folder. You should see multiple preconfigured dashboards. You can monitor the performance of the workloads and the istio system itself here. You can also create your own dashboards if you like. Prometheus provides the data visualized on Grafana.
```

{% img blog/cloud-native-java-microservices-with-istio/grafana.png alt:"Grafana dashboard" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

**Kiali**

Kiali is a management console for Istio service mesh, and it provides a web interface for visualizing the network topology of your service mesh. You can use it to explore the network topology of your cluster and see the network traffic flowing through it. Click **Graph** on the left side menu to see the network topology.

{% img blog/cloud-native-java-microservices-with-istio/kiali.png alt:"Kiali dashboard" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

**Zipkin**

Zipkin is a distributed tracing solution for distributed systems. It is a tool for capturing distributed traces and providing a centralized view of the traces. This is essential for a microservice setup where a request could span multiple services, and debugging would require tracing them. Click **RUN QUERY** on the home screen to fetch recent traces, and click **SHOW** on one of them.

{% img blog/cloud-native-java-microservices-with-istio/zipkin.png alt:"Zipkin dashboard" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

> ### Cleanup

Reviewer: It might be better to have a more descriptive title here.

> Once you are done with experiments, make sure to delete the cluster you created so that you don't end up with a big bill from Google. You can delete the cluster from the Google Cloud Console GUI or via the command line using the below command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you are done with experiments, make sure to delete the cluster you created so that you don't end up with a big bill from Google. You can delete the cluster from the Google Cloud Console GUI or via the command line using the following command.
```

```bash
gcloud container clusters delete hello-hipster
```

> ## Learn more about Java Microservices, Istio, Kubernetes and JHipster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Learn more about Java Microservices, Istio, Kubernetes, and JHipster
```
Oxford comma.

If you want to learn more about Kubernetes, OIDC, or using OIDC with Kubernetes, and security in general, check out these additional resources.

- [How to Secure Your Kubernetes Cluster with OpenID Connect and RBAC](/blog/2021/11/08/k8s-api-server-oidc)
- [Kubernetes Microservices on Azure with Cosmos DB](/blog/2022/05/05/kubernetes-microservices-azure)
- [How to Secure Your Kubernetes Clusters With Best Practices](/blog/2021/12/02/k8s-security-best-practices)
- [Securing a Cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/securing-a-cluster/)
- [OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect Overview](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/)
- [Secure Access to AWS EKS Clusters for Admins](/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks)

> Check the code out on [GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-java-spring-k8s-istio-microservices-example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all the code from this example on [GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-java-spring-k8s-istio-microservices-example).
```
